everybody John here with the blues
guitar institute the look that you just
heard it's definitely a very Rocky style
lick I mean there's no hiding that
there's a straight up minor pentatonic
rock stuff here
but this will work really well of our
blues progression in particular the the
turnaround or the cadence of a 12 bar
progression when you're moving from the
5 chord to the 4 chord and wrapping up
the the 12 bar let's take a look at this
note from note and see if we can't get
it under your fingers okay so what we've
got here is a lick with a lot of legato
some cool bends and it's coming straight
out of the G minor pentatonic scale here
around the 15th and 17th fret
okay so we start this lick off 17th fret
on the third-string and then move into
our first legato sequence from the which
is a hammer on and a pull off from the
15th fret to the 18th fret then back to
the 15th and then we have another
sequence
which the first parts the same a little
different rhythm but then the second
hammer-on pull-off combination is here
in the 15th and the 17th frame so all
together let's call both of those little
parts one segment so here we go this is
the first segment
and make sure when you're playing legato
that you don't let these notes you know
kind of disappear on you when you're not
picking in other words your hammer on
and your pull off should be very clear
whether you're picking or not
it's a really practice and work to get
these notes sounding very clearly and
then so that's one segment let's move
through the lick we do repeat that
segment three times the total of three
okay and then we start with the the
bending part of this and we'll go from
the 17th fret on the third-string to the
D note here on the second string which
is at the 15th fret and then we're going
to move to our 18th for it and Bend up
two frets to the which is a whole step
up to the G note so here we are that's
the note that we're going for okay and
here's how we do the bands in town we
return to the 18th fret on Ben 15th fret
on the second string do this little Bend
release and pull off
so we're bending up the 18th fret a full
step coming back down to home on the
18th fret just on there and then pulling
off to our 15th fret and then we hit the
17th fret on the g string and back to
the D note here on the 15th fret and
give that one some good vibrato
ok so here we are slowly the whole thing
together
and up the speed
you